---
title: Getting Started
template: page.hbt
---

[[PiLR]] Health is a platform that enables researchers to collect, manage,
and analyze data from mobile health studies. PiLR was developed on the
principles of ease-of-use and extensibility. With just a few clicks,
you can create a fully-functioning project, add a participant, and
begin collecting data from one or more apps, sensors, or other mobile
devices. PiLR handles the tedious tasks of collecting, merging, and
summarizing data from these multiple sources.

PiLR is extensible, both in terms of the devices it can collect data
from, and its analysis tools. New devices can be routed through PiLR's
API, to streamline the data collection process. On the backend, PiLR
is integrated with the R statistical programming language. This means
you can do things like generate live dashboard summaries using R's
powerful charting capabilities, or analyze your study data in
real-time as participants are generating data. 

### PiLR Makes Mobile Health Studies Simple

Whether your study requires gathering data from one source or many,
PiLR makes the process as simple as possible. For example, say your
study that requires collecting daily step count data collected via a
FitBit. At the end of the day, you would like to deliver a survey via
a smartphone application to ask the user some questions about their
physical activities and diet that day.

In PiLR you simply enable the FitBit and EMA [[instruments]] for your
participants. The EMA smartphone application allows mobile surveys to
be distributed to your participants. When the user is finished with
the survey, they submit their data via the app, and PiLR handles
combining it with the FitBit data. You get to focus on your results
immediately, not managing complex datasets from multiple sources.

### Advanced Features

PiLR supports many advanced features. You can dynamically enable and
disable data-collection instruments for different periods of a study,
assign participants to randomized treatment groups, create custom
dashboards to view your data, and much more.

Try the tutorials for a hands-on introduction to PiLR! 




