---
title: Tutorials
template: page.hbt
---

# PiLR Tutorial

This tutorial will guide you through setting up a project that will
collect some simple GPS location data from a smartphone application.


## Create Account

## Login 

## Launch Project Wizard 

Visit PilR Health Home by clicking on the logo in the upper-left
corner of the page. To create a new [[project]], just click the '+ New
project...' link under the list of projects on the right hand side of
of the Home screen.

You have just launched the 'Create a New Project' wizard. Your just a
few steps away from collecting and viewing data with PiLR. 

### Step 1: Name the project

Every project needs a name, and here is where we can define it. Simply
type some text in the 'Name' field. As you're entering the name,
notice how the 'Code' field is automatically changing? The 'Code'
field will be used by your web brower to show you specific information
about your project, so it needs to have a special format. Don't worry
though, PiLR automatically constructs a valid 'Code' for you based on
the 'Name'. When you're happy with your project's name, click the
'Next' button.

### Step 2: Structure the Project

While PiLR is extremely versatile, you can also quickly setup projects
based on common configurations. For this tutorial, let's use an
existing project structure. Leave the first option selected "Start
with a defined project structure", and select Location Tracking -
Example 1" from the dropdown. Then click 'Next'.

### Step 3: Some help getting started

We can add an initial study participant in this step. First, check the
'Add an initial participant' box. There are now three fields to fill
in related to adding a participant. 

1. Add an initial participant

   In the 'Participant ID' field, you can add a code to reference the
participant. For a given study, you will probably want to devise a
plan to label participant's in a meaningul way. Perhaps simply
increasing numerically, or perhaps based on a treatment group that
they will be part of. Let's just label this Participant *100* to keep
things simple.

   Enter something like "PiLR Tutorial Participant" in the 'Participant Description' field. In general, you can put whatever text
you want in this field, it's just there to help you out.

     Next, click on the empty box next to 'Active period start
date'. We'll learn what that term means soon. A calendar will display,
and have today's date highlighted in blue. Simply click the blue date
(i.e., today's date).



   Recall that this project is going to collect data from a smartphone
   application. That application will be installed on a device, and
   needs to be associated with the participant we just created above
   (Participant 100). In this step, we'll create the login information
   that the phone will need to write data to the PiLR system. If you
   were enrolling actual participants in a study using this smartphone
   application, you'd need to either configure the application for
   them using this information, or provide the information to them
   directly. This information ensures the application can only see
   information related to *this* participant.

Click 'Finish' and you're ready to start collecting data. 


### Step 4: Setup the Location app

1. Install the application from <<>>.

2. Enter the participant access code information defined in step 3.2 above.


   




